My name is Sara Belong, and I
teach English language at grade
six here at George Street Middle School.
So as a classroom teacher,
I am working on applying basic
universal design
for learning strategies with my students.
When it comes to reading at the grade
six level, I do often have kids
that don't like reading or struggle
with reading at grade level.
So I like to give the kids all choice
as opposed to me
telling them what they have to read.
I like to give choice in the format
of the books that I offer the kids.
So I have a lot of graphic novels
in the classroom.
I have shorter novels in verse.
I have a lot of poetry books,
and I really like to give them the choice
to with how they read. Examples are
I like them to have the choice
to listen to the book as an audiobook.
I do read alouds where they can sit back
and I read them the book.
I love to do partner readings
where the kids get to sit with a friend
and each have a copy of the same book,
and either read it out loud together
or in their heads together,
but then they can discuss
the, the book with each other
when they're when they're done.
I really enjoy trying to find out
what the kids are interested in,
and I make every effort
to get books about those topics.
Just to boost the interest
in reading and help them
increase their volume of reading.
And there's nothing better than a student
being able to say, I finished this book.
I think that it helps them
to have a writer's
identity
as they move up into the higher grades.
They now are in the conversation
about books
and they can say, I have read that,
and here's what I thought of it
over the last few years of me implementing
this choice in reading for the kids.
I have seen a huge growth in the volume
that the kids are reading,
and just the joy of reading
like hearing the buzz of them
talk to each other
about what they've read is amazing.
And yes, that does translate
into their literacy abilities too,
with reading and writing.
So a strategy that was shown to me
is called First Chapter Fridays,
where every Friday I'll read a chapter
or even just part of a chapter
of a new book that I've got.
And the hope is that the kids will become
interested, and they always do.
So I'll read the first chapter,
kind of leave them hanging,
and then say,
who would like to now borrow this book?
And that little tweak in how I do things
has improved their volume
of reading and their joy for reading
a lot.
They all want that book
that I just read the first chapter,
because often a closed book on the shelf
that they know nothing about.
A reluctant reader just isn't going to
joyfully go and pick a book, right?
They need to be led into it.
So if you are trying to provide choice
for your students for reading,
I would suggest getting
as many different books as you can.
You know, provide
a variety of books in your classroom,
a variety of genres for them to pick from,
and if you have the ability
to offer them an iPad with headphones
so that they can listen to audiobooks,
I think that would be a really good start.
My my take on this is,
the days of forcing kids
to all read the same book
and making them love that book are gone.
We need to get to know our kids first,
find out what they're interested
in, what makes them tick,
and then try to bring text
into your classroom that support that.
And you will see
your kids fly with reading.